Auth0 React SDK library docs (#9171)
auth0/docs: articles/libraries/auth0-react/index.md

---
section: libraries
toc: true
title: Auth0 React SDK
description: Auth0 SDK for React Single Page Applications.
topics:
  - libraries
  - auth0-react
contentType:
  - index
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

# Auth0 React SDK

The Auth0 React SDK is a JavaScript library for implementing authentication & authorization in React apps with Auth0. It provides a custom React hook and other Higher Order Components so you can secure React apps using best practices while writing less code.

> The Auth0 React SDK handles grant and protocol details, token expiration and renewal, as well as token storage and cacheing. Under the hood, it implements [Universal Login](/universal-login) and the [Authorization Code Grant Flow with PKCE](/api-auth/tutorials/authorization-code-grant-pkce).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Auth0 React SDK handles grant and protocol details, token expiration and renewal, as well as token storage and caching. Under the hood, it implements [Universal Login](/universal-login) and the [Authorization Code Grant Flow with PKCE](/api-auth/tutorials/authorization-code-grant-pkce).
```

> The library is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react) and you can find the API documentation [here](https://auth0.github.io/auth0-react/).

Reviewer: Let's wrap the link around more text to give additional text as to what's being clicked on.

```suggestion
The library is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react) where you can [read more about the API](https://auth0.github.io/auth0-react/).
```

## Installation

You have a few options for using auth0-react in your project:

From the CDN:

```html
<script src="${auth0react_url}"></script>
```

Using [npm](https://npmjs.org):

```sh
npm install @auth0/auth0-react
```

Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com):

```sh
yarn add @auth0/auth0-react
```

## Getting Started

First, you'll need to wrap your application in a single `Auth0Provider` component. This will provide the React Context to components that are placed inside your application.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { Auth0Provider } from '@auth0/auth0-react';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <Auth0Provider
    domain="${account.namespace}"
    clientId="${account.clientId}"
    redirectUri={window.location.origin}
  >
    <App />
  </Auth0Provider>,
  document.getElementById('app')
);
```

> Use the `useAuth0` hook in your components to access the React Context's authentication state (`isLoading`, `isAuthenticated` and `user`) and authentication methods (`loginWithRedirect` and `logout`).

Reviewer: I'd prefer to see this split out into more headings - can we split out login and logout with their own simple code snippets under their own headings?

Perhaps another one showing the user's name as well under its own heading. It'll give more granularity to link to it from external places, but also will break down the sample and make it easier to see the different parts.

What do you think?

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { useAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    isAuthenticated,
    error,
    user,
    loginWithRedirect,
    logout,
  } = useAuth0();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>Oops... {error.message}</div>;
  }
  if (!isAuthenticated) {
    return <button onClick={loginWithRedirect}>Log in</button>;
  }
  if (isAuthenticated) {
    return (
      <div>

>         Hello {user.name} <button onClick={logout}>Log out</button>

Reviewer: We should show calling `logout` with the `returnTo` param here like we've now done elsewhere.

      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default App;
```

> ### Use with a Class Component

Reviewer: Sub heads should use normal sentence case

```suggestion
### Use with a class component
```

> Use the `withAuth0` higher order component to add the `auth0` property to Class components instead of using the hook.

Reviewer: Should "Class" be capitalized here?

Also should we capitalize "higher order component" here? It is capitalized elsewhere in the doc, we should at least be consistent.

```suggestion
Use the `withAuth0` Higher Order Component to add the `auth0` property to class components instead of using the hook.
```

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { withAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

class Profile extends Component {
  render() {
    const { user } = this.props.auth0;
    return <div>Hello {user.name}</div>;
  }
}

export default withAuth0(Profile);

> ```

Reviewer: This would be a great, concise example of showing the user profile if you were to split that out from the login/profile/logout sample from earlier in the article, except with functions instead of classes.

> ### Protect a Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Protect a route
```

Protect a route component using the `withAuthenticationRequired` higher order component. Visits to this route when unauthenticated will redirect the user to the login page and back to this page after login.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { withAuthenticationRequired } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

const PrivateRoute = () => (<div>Private</div>);

export default withAuthenticationRequired(PrivateRoute, {
  // Show a message while the user waits to be redirected to the login page.
  onRedirecting: () => (<div>Redirecting you to the login page...</div>)
});
```

**Note** If you are using a custom router, you will need to supply the `Auth0Provider` with a custom `onRedirectCallback` method to perform the action that returns the user to the protected page. See examples for [react-router](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#1-protecting-a-route-in-a-react-router-dom-app), [Gatsby](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#2-protecting-a-route-in-a-gatsby-app) and [Next.js](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#3-protecting-a-route-in-a-nextjs-app-in-spa-mode).

### Call an API

> To call a protected API with an Access Token. Be sure to specify the `audience` and `scope` of your access token, either in `Auth0Provider` or `getAccessTokenSilently`. Then use it to call a protected API by passing it in the `Authorization` header of your request.

Reviewer: This looks like it should be a compound sentence, or it's missing some words.

```suggestion
To call a protected API with an Access Token, be sure to specify the `audience` and `scope` of your access token, either in `Auth0Provider` or `getAccessTokenSilently`. Then use it to call a protected API by passing it in the `Authorization` header of your request.
```
